# JellyfishUVR

https://rpubs.com/ljohnso14/polypuvr

Hanging under the ledge: lack of mitigating mechanisms and reduced reproduction and survival when exposed to ultraviolet solar radiation explain settlement patterns of jellyfish polyps.


Lauren E Johnson and Laura M Treible 

ABSTRACT

Overexposure to ultraviolet radiation (UVR) emitted by the sun can damage and kill living cells in animals, plants, and microorganisms. In aquatic environments, UVR can penetrate nearly 47 m into the water column, severely impacting many marine organisms. Jellyfish, in particular, are often considered resilient to environmental stressors, potentially explaining their success in environmentally disturbed areas, but the extent of their resilience to UVR is not well known. Here, we tested resiliency to UVR by exposing benthic polyps of Aurelia sp. to UVA and UVB—the two types of UVR that reach Earth’s surface—both separately and in combination. We quantified asexual reproduction rates and attachment to hard substrate. We also assessed potential UVR mitigating mechanisms, such as migration or the presence of pigments including carotenoids with antioxidant properties and mycosporine-like amino acids (MAAs) with sunscreen-like properties. There were no differences in asexual reproduction rates between polyps exposed to isolated UVA and polyps that received no UVR. Polyps reproduced when exposed to short term (~7-9 days) isolated UVB , but long-term exposure limited reproduction and polyp attachment to the substrate. When exposed to both UVA and UVB , polyps did not reproduce and experienced 100% mortality within 20 days. Although many studies only examine the effect of UVB, UVR exposure contains both UVA and UVB, which here resulted in greater negative impacts than either UVA or UVB in isolation. Therefore, studies that only examine effects of UVB potentially underestimate the full effect of UVR. Additionally, Aurelia spp. polyps did not contain pigments (MAAs or carotenoids) or respond behaviorally (via migration) to combat UVR exposure. These results suggest that polyps lack mechanisms to alleviate UVR stress, so the planula larval stage must settle in low-UVR environments to establish the success of the polyp stage.